# Fuzzing
The Fuzzer struct handles overall fuzzer management + workers coordination. Its main loop is `Fuzzer.spawnWorkersLoop`. Workers run in parallel, depending on the configured amount of threads. Workers are also stopped and restarted every `WorkerResetLimit`. This is to prevent a geth[TODO] memory leak. `FuzzerWorker.run` is the main worker loop. Essentailly, it’s a loop of generating and running call sequences, and testing at each step for test failures. (Call sequence generation is handled by `CallSequenceGenerator`. Sometimes we generate new call sequences, sometimes we modify existing ones; this is determined by `NewSequenceProbability`). When there’s a test failure we get a shrink request, which is a request to produce a shorter call sequence that still breaks a given test (`ShrinkCallSequenceRequest`, defined in `fuzzer_hooks.go`, represents the request; test case provider files handle the actual creation of these requests; `fuzzer_worker_shrinking.go` contains code for shrinking the call sequences).
Fuzzers and workers generate events; see `Fuzzer.Events` and `fuzzer_events.go`, and `FuzzerWorker.Events` and `fuzzer_worker_events.go`.
A test case is an individual test we’re trying to fuzz against + break. We have assertion, optimization, and property tests. Each test case has a `test_case_[name].go` file which provides the struct and some basic methods to meet the `TestCase` interface and a `test_case_[name]_provider.go` file which handles the test case logic, and hooks test case checks into the fuzzer execution. When adding/modifying test cases, look at other test case code for precedent to follow. Each `test_case_[name]_provider.go` file defines an `attach[Name]TestCaseProvider` function which is called inside the `NewFuzzer` function.
