# Coverage tracking
We track code coverage to for each call sequence. Coverage tracking is branch-based rather than line-based. Generally, we track which way branches went rather than which lines got hit. More specifically, each time a contract jumps (`JUMP`/`JUMPI`), begins execution, reverts, or returns, it is recorded in a coverage map. This is typically faster than line-based, since not every line needs coverage tracking (lines that can’t jump, revert, or return can only go in one direction). It also captures more information, especially for which `JUMPI` branch is taken and for knowing whether a revert happened.
## Coverage maps
Coverage is tracked in a `CoverageMaps` struct, defined in `coverage_maps.go`. It is indexed first by a bytecode hash (more information later), then by contract address, then by a marker which basically indicates where a branch was taken from and where it went (more information later). In particular, `CoverageMaps` contains a field `maps map[common.Hash]map[common.Address]*ContractCoverageMap` from bytecode hash and address to contract coverage data, and `ContractCoverageMap` contains a field `executedMarkers map[uint64]uint64` from marker to the number of times the marker was hit.
### Bytecode hash
A contract’s hash is calculated by `func getContractCoverageMapHash(bytecode []byte, init bool) common.Hash`, defined in `coverage_maps.go`. It takes a contract’s bytecode and a bool indicating whether we are running init code (i.e. constructor) or runtime code. During runtime we can use the bytecode’s cbor metadata (mostly for speed but also because of immutables); we strip the cbor metadata and hash the resulting code (because constructor fields show up in the metadata and we want to uniquely identify the contract). If we can’t find the metadata we just hash the whole thing. There is also a `USE_FULL_BYTECODE` environment variable that allows users to change the behavior to always strip the cbor metadata and hash the resulting code; this fixes the behavior for some users under weird compilation circumstances.
`getContractCoverageMapHash` calculations and map lookups are both slow, so we cache whenever possible. `CoverageMaps` has a `cachedMap *ContractCoverageMap` field for the most recently used `ContractCoverageMap`, and `cachedCodeAddress` and `cachedCodeHash` fields to identify which contract this was for; in most cases this allows us to only do two comparisons (`cachedCodeAddress` and `cachedCodeHash`) rather than two map lookups (in `CoverageMaps.maps`). The `CoverageTracer` struct (explained later) also has a `codeHashCache [2]map[common.Hash]common.Hash` field which caches results from `getContractCoverageMapHash`.
### Markers
As mentioned above, markers are indices in `ContractCoverageMap.executedMarkers`. Basically, we have a "from" field in the lower 32 bits and a "to" field in the upper 32 bits. More specifically, the lower 32 bits indicate the program counter where something happened, and the upper 32 bits indicate either the PC jumped to (in the case of `JUMP`/`JUMPI`), `0x4000` if we reverted, `0x8000` if we returned, or `0xC000` if we began execution. The `REVERT_MARKER_XOR`, `RETURN_MARKER_XOR`, and `ENTER_MARKER_XOR` constants are used here. Marker creation is done in `coverage_tracer.go`.
### Conversion to line-based coverage
When we create coverage reports at the end of a fuzzing run, we need line-based coverage to display to the user. The main function responsible for this is `determineLinesCovered`, defined in `source_analysis.go`. Roughly, since each marker has a "from" field and a "to" field, we can keep a running hit count, start at PC 0, and count up, adding the markers that go "to" here and subtracting the markers that go "from" here.
## Coverage tracer
TODO
